Let's connect the last bit of JavaScript
knowledge before we start doing more
application.
I'm trying to get you familiar with
programming fully as a concept and
then we're gonna go to start
doing fun applications of it.
You can think of objects
of grab bags of data.
Think about as objects or unordered lists,
so it's data with no
sense of kind of order.
Arrays are like ordered lists where
things come in an order, right?
So for example days of the week,
those come in a specific order.
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, Sunday, right?
If I move Tuesday in front of Monday,
now it's incorrect, right?
There's an order implied here and
that's what an array is.
It's just a list of other data.
In fact, you'll probably hear me say
the word list and array interchangeably.
Most programming languages use
those two terms interchangeably.
There's not a list in JavaScript,
there's just arrays which means that I
use list to describe arrays sometimes.
They're called arrays, just so you know.
Okay, so if I say console.log days of
the week, I will get the full array.
Right, and
this is just a list of strings, right?
It's an array of strings.
Okay, if I say
console.log(daysOfTheWeek) and
then I use the square brackets to look for
the 0th element,
then I'll get Monday, right?
So that's the one thing
about programming and
this is generally applicable to
almost every single language is we,
computer scientists start counting
from zero not from one, right.
So the 0th element is the first element,
the one element is the second element.
So if I asked for the one index of
days of the week like I do here,
which one do you expect to get?
Tuesday, correct, because zero would
be Monday, that makes Tuesday, one.
If I asked for the sixth index,
which one do you expect to get?
Sunday, right,
because it's the seventh one there.
So it's kind of hard to get used
to it at the beginning, but
once you start programming for a while,
you can't think of any other way of
counting other than from like
starting from zero and going forward.
It just makes things a lot easier.
And so that's, I mean, mostly what arrays
are is they're just collections of data.
They're just like a shape
that you can put data into.
So you can have arrays of strings.
You can have arrays of numbers.
You can have arrays of objects.
You can have arrays of arrays.
You can have arrays of strings and
numbers.
It doesn't really care, right,
it doesn't have to be homogenous, right,
you can mix and match, right?
Generally you don't, generally it's
a good idea to kind of keep them
homogenous cuz I think that
makes your code more clear.
But there's absolutely no reason I
can't just put 5 here arbitrarily.
So now what is this one
gonna log out here?
5, it doesn't care, right,
it'll just do whatever you tell it to do.
Cool, so square brackets.
When you see square brackets,
you know that you're looking at an array.
When you see angle bracket or
angle curly braces,
sorry, when you see curly braces you
know you're looking at an object.
Just something to keep in mind there.
You're always gonna
separate them with a comma,
all of the various different
elements in the array.
And this last one here,
technically optional.
Up to you if you wanna put it there,
but the last one is optional.
Generally, I put it cuz then I don't have
to think about which one I'm looking at.
And the other thing that's nice about it,
let's say I wanted to go add another thing
to the end of the list,
I don't have to go back and
write another comma,
it's just already there.
Okay?
So looking at this one, prime numbers,
which is just a array of numbers, right?
Prime numbers that I just put in there,
1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13 and 17.
The length is how many
items are in that array, so
it's gonna give you back a number
representing how many items are in it.
It doesn't start from 0 by the way.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, so
I would expect to see 8 there.
And I do.
Makes sense I think, right?
Join is kind of a fun little
method that's on arrays,
cuz arrays have a ton
of built-ins as well.
It's going to take whatever
string you put in here, and
then it's going to make a string
out of the entire array for you.
So this is now one string and is separated
by these horizontal bars, right?
But I could put question marks there,
right?
I could put exclamation points,
it doesn't care.
Whatever you put there it's how
it's gonna join those things.
I can put empty string and
it'll actually literally just mush them
all together into a single number.
Or I can do comments,
right, or bars or slashes.
Whatever you wanna do.
So that's kind of fun, if you need
to take an array of something and
collapse it down to a string.
Okay, so let's look at this one.
I have an array called courses.
These are objects, right?
So I have a teacher on here,
right, there's me.
I teach the React course.
I think it's pretty good my opinion.
There's a function here on courses
called push on arrays, right?
Push is just going to add
something to the end of the array.
You're trying to push something on it,
right?
So if I push another course on there,
Now there's the same array, but
this array has one more course on it.
It has this Jen Kramer course on it,
right?
So if I say console.log,
courses.length here,
and then I do it again here,
Is line 9 and
line 13 going to log the same thing?
No, why?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, so
there's one more thing on it,
so it's one longer, right?
So if I go look at my output here,
there was five before, one,
two, three, four, five.
And now there are six on it
cuz I added one more to it.
So that's what push does.
Courses is just gonna log
out the entire array, right?
So you can see here on the end that
Jen's course has now been added to it.
And I can replace things, right?
So I say course is two,
which one's course is two, zero, one, two.
I'm replacing my own course on it there,
right?
And I'm changing that to be now to
be the Complete Intro to Databases,
a different course that I teach.
You know something I
didn't even think about,
we could even do something like this,
cuz we're not changing teacher, right?
We could totally just
say course equals blah.
Course 2, and
on that object change the course to be
equal to complete intro to databases.
This sign this needs to be equals.
Now if you go down here,
still the same thing, right?
You can combine those accessories
together, which is interesting.
What else can we do?
We can also say, all right, so
let's get rid of some of this stuff.
Let's do another function here.
So I'm gonna say courses.pop.
What pop does is it removes
the last thing in the array.
So I have Scott Moss' course here, and
this is going to be taken off, right?
And actually if I say
const scott equals this,
it'll actually take it and
return it to you.
So now Scott, this variable here will
be this particular variable, right?
So if I say console.log, Scott,
you'll see that it's just
Scott's course right there.
No, it's Jen's cuz
that's the one I put on.
See, I wasn't even thinking through it.
[LAUGH] Right,
cuz I pushed Jen's course on here.
Okay, so that's not Scott,
we should say Jen.
Now if I say console.log(courses.length),
This was five, this was six, what is this?
Five, we went back down.
There we go.
So there's just a bunch of functions like
that built into, there's a shift and
unshift, which are the worst
named functions by the way, but
that's what they're called.
Shift removes off the front, and I think
they invented that one for instance like,
okay, you might need to take
something off the beginning, right?
So if I said courses.shift,
console.log(courses.shift) it's going to
remove I think Wills course and
return it to you.
You can see right there
removes Will's course there.
And now I can say courses,
what's the opposite of shifting?
unshifting(jen).
So now what's the first item in my array?
Jen, right, cuz undoes what shift does.
It's not intuitive at all, it is the
dumbest name that I can possibly think of,
but that's what it's called.
By the way,
I almost always have to look this up,
cuz it just doesn't make any sense to me.
I can never remember what it is,
so I have to usually look it up.
I just feel lucky that I remembered
this time cuz I'm on camera.